Caption: okay good morning welcome back everyone
Caption: to jacquel nagar uh we have up next a
Caption: speaker who is going to be running us
Caption: through inclusive storytelling with
Caption: Dynamic data
Caption: Lorraine legasick is the head of
Caption: Technology at intopia a Microsoft MVP in
Caption: accessibility and a community manager of
Caption: tech leading ladies Australia
Caption: she specializes in building full stack
Caption: applications with accessibility and
Caption: inclusion at front of mind she's an
Caption: International Conference speaker and a
Caption: guest University lecturer on digital
Caption: accessibility and software architecture
Caption: she's one of the core members of The
Caption: dataviz Alley group formed in 2020 and
Caption: her and other accessibility Advocates
Caption: and experts came together virtually to
Caption: solve for a lack of resources and
Caption: guidance for mating garter visualization
Caption: inclusive of people with various
Caption: disabilities with the goal of raising
Caption: awareness and providing guidelines and
Caption: solutions
Caption: please welcome Lauren to the stage today
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: David thank you everyone for coming
Caption: I hope you're having a wonderful day so
Caption: far
Caption: um
Caption: so hi yes my name is Loren legasick uh
Caption: it's so wonderful to be here in Perth uh
Caption: I usually live and work in the engine or
Caption: also known as Brisbane and they are the
Caption: it is the home of the terrible and the
Caption: younger peoples
Caption: um and I pay my respects to their Elders
Caption: past and present as well as those of the
Caption: nunga peoples of verduck or Perth and to
Caption: all the Elders of communities of anyone
Caption: traveling here or watching online today
Caption: uh my notes are not synced up to my
Caption: slides but thank you so much to uh to
Caption: all the amazing sponsors of EDD Perth
Caption: and as well as the organizers and the
Caption: other speakers and of course everyone
Caption: coming along to hang out uh it is a huge
Caption: huge pleasure to be here
Caption: um
Caption: okay
Caption: so
Caption: a little bit about me oh it is synced up
Caption: uh sorry I had a bit of a family
Caption: emergency this morning so I'm a bit bit
Caption: scattered at the moment so please
Caption: forgive me if I'm seem a little bit
Caption: unprepared
Caption: um a little bit about me I am a software
Caption: engineer and I work at a company called
Caption: intopia uh as David mentioned we had
Caption: digital accessibility consultancy if you
Caption: end up enjoying this talk uh
Caption: and would like to talk about
Caption: accessibility at work all day please
Caption: also consider checking out checking out
Caption: our work with us page we are hiring it
Caption: is very scary but we'd love to work with
Caption: you I think Julie's in the room as well
Caption: hey Julie please feel free to come chat
Caption: to one of us if uh if you are interested
Caption: in hearing more about working
Caption: accessibility
Caption: um
Caption: so uh my name is pronounced Loren
Caption: um it's tough one my parents were not
Caption: kind when they chose my name I am not at
Caption: all French even though my name is fully
Caption: French uh I'm half Chinese and half
Caption: Australian I pronounce that she and her
Caption: and my Twitter handle is Loren LG
Caption: and uh I already went through that bit
Caption: so
Caption: um
Caption: uh and something related to the talk
Caption: that I'm giving today is a lot of the
Caption: content has come from an article that
Caption: I've been writing for a non-for-profit
Caption: company on databiz
Caption: um that is coming out in December I'm
Caption: very excited to share it with you all
Caption: um
Caption: so a bit of the story behind this talk
Caption: uh so in the before times February 2020
Caption: uh I did a talk at the Brisbane data
Caption: science Meetup one of my favorites hi
Caption: Enrique if you're watching online
Caption: um and I also gave a version of this
Caption: talk with kind of a speed chart redesign
Caption: uh that is on YouTube as well at a
Caption: conference called Data inch bytes you
Caption: might have heard of it uh really really
Caption: cool conference also non-frofit and
Caption: Community run
Caption: um and I meant uh I I didn't get to give
Caption: a talk on uh inclusive presentations uh
Caption: at uh fenders on Wednesday
Caption: um those talks were uh not the most not
Caption: the most accessible talk so I'm always
Caption: learning along the way
Caption: um
Caption: and uh so
Caption: um I won't be covering a whole lot of
Caption: very in-depth kind of accessibility data
Caption: VIs
Caption: uh Basics today
Caption: um but if you want to kind of learn more
Caption: and find out kind of the details please
Caption: I've got a bunch of resources at the end
Caption: um
Caption: that uh that you can go and have a look
Caption: at if this is interesting to you and
Caption: helpful to you
Caption: um so the talk that I did the Meetup uh
Caption: in Brisbane was called inclusive
Caption: storytelling with data and I only
Caption: focused on static charts or images of
Caption: charts so didn't talk about the
Caption: interaction at all and I made a big
Caption: promise that I would do a follow-up one
Caption: about Dynamic charts and here I am two
Caption: years later
Caption: and so this is a bit of a reprise of
Caption: that talk and I'm very very excited
Caption: uh I think I have internet but
Caption: um so the big kind of trigger for this
Caption: topic and the big light bulb moment for
Caption: me was reading a book called
Caption: storytelling with data
Caption: um by Cole nospoma naflick amazing
Caption: amazing database uh expert who worked at
Caption: Google and ended up her whole job being
Caption: teaching people how to communicate
Caption: better with data at Google
Caption: and I really really recommend reading
Caption: that book before anything else uh really
Caption: really awesome book on the kind of
Caption: basics of design and data communication
Caption: and um
Caption: if you want to make accessible data
Caption: visualizations as that book will mention
Caption: you do need to learn a little bit about
Caption: design
Caption: a well-designed data visualization is
Caption: easy to interpret and understand and
Caption: good design takes into the account
Caption: it takes into account the needs of users
Caption: and some of those users will have
Caption: disabilities
Caption: and
Caption: um
Caption: so accessible design is inclusive design
Caption: an inclusive design is the key to good
Caption: design where it considers not only
Caption: disability but language culture gender
Caption: age and other forms of human difference
Caption: if you haven't heard of inclusive design
Caption: before
Caption: uh there's a
Caption: um very often uh very very popular
Caption: diagram that I've got on the screen at
Caption: the moment
Caption: um about inclusive design from Microsoft
Caption: you may have seen it before or you may
Caption: have known of it before so it's a table
Caption: with three column and four rows and the
Caption: columns refer to examples of permanent
Caption: temporary and situational disability
Caption: and the rows refer to sensors such as
Caption: human sensors such as motor Vision
Caption: hearing and speech so an example in the
Caption: in the diagram is a permanent mode of
Caption: disability is maybe an amputee with a
Caption: missing arm
Caption: and while a temporary motor disability
Caption: is having a broken arm and a situational
Caption: disability is perhaps a parent carrying
Caption: a newborn
Caption: um and you can come up with your own
Caption: examples for the others the goal of this
Caption: graphic is to illustrate that if
Caption: disability is viewed as a mismatch
Caption: between a person that disabilities views
Caption: can be viewed as a mismatch between a
Caption: person and their environment the
Caption: environment is actually just disabling
Caption: the person
Caption: um and designing for disability actually
Caption: benefits everybody
Caption: um
Caption: so to design a chart accessibly
Caption: accessibly will help your database be
Caption: understood by more and more people if
Caption: you want to learn more about inclusive
Caption: design please please do check out
Caption: Microsoft's inclusive design toolkit and
Caption: I believe they are also a sponsor of DDD
Caption: Perth
Caption: so uh one thing I do want to note and a
Caption: common misconception if you are new to
Caption: accessibility is accessibility is not
Caption: one size fits all it's not trying to
Caption: kind of craft everyone to go through the
Caption: same UI flow
Caption: um it is providing multiple Pathways
Caption: that not every user might kind of take
Caption: so an example is
Caption: um
Caption: brain freeze
Caption: um so for for the example of data
Caption: visualizations uh folks might prefer
Caption: that visual folks might prefer to look
Caption: at a chart or a data visualization and
Caption: maybe people who prefer looking at the
Caption: data and understanding the data would
Caption: prefer to have a table presented to them
Caption: instead so that they can do their own
Caption: analysis on the data so that is a that
Caption: is an example of being flexible and
Caption: providing multiple Pathways for the same
Caption: outcome you want people to understand or
Caption: to
Caption: consume your data
Caption: and so uh one of the big problems is
Caption: that um
Caption: and and the reason for kind of kicking
Caption: off this
Caption: talk and this uh kind of Meetup Group in
Caption: data visualization is there's not a
Caption: whole lot of resources out there to uh
Caption: or there wasn't there is now actually
Caption: um to learn how to make the interactive
Caption: Dynamic database accessible and what I
Caption: mean by that is uh most data
Caption: visualizations uh able to be accessed
Caption: using a mouse and
Caption: um and for sighted folks but if it when
Caption: it comes down to people who cannot use a
Caption: mouse they only use the keyboard maybe
Caption: or people who use screen readers
Caption: they are not able to look at the data at
Caption: all
Caption: um and so I have a video from
Caption: uh
Caption: a a talk kind of on a 101 data
Caption: visualization just to show an example
Caption: and hopefully it plays uh of what it is
Caption: like for a screen reader user to access
Caption: a an inaccessible chart so
Caption: um a lot of this blew up because uh
Caption: when when kind of covered
Caption: began there was also the U.S election
Caption: and so there was an incredible amount of
Caption: data visualization and especially kind
Caption: of
Caption: um the advancements and also data
Caption: visualization libraries kind of anybody
Caption: could kind of put together a um a really
Caption: shiny looking data visualization
Caption: um or something that's super interactive
Caption: and super cool which they were but
Caption: unfortunately
Caption: um
Caption: they want the best experience for
Caption: everyone
Caption: on internet
Caption: something else that's more technical is
Caption: making it work for a screen reader
Caption: screen readers such as for example
Caption: voiceover for Mac they will read what's
Caption: displayed on the page and unless you're
Caption: using a database library that already
Caption: puts a lot of focus in screen reader
Caption: accessibility you will have to do quite
Caption: a bit of technical work there yourself
Caption: let's take a look at an example
Caption: this is from Fox News
Caption: during the elections they had a page
Caption: live updated as the Electoral College
Caption: for its given
Caption: and the progress bar underneath
Caption: would show how many votes from each
Caption: State's each of the candidates had
Caption: gathered already and how close they were
Caption: to getting the 270 that they needed to
Caption: win
Caption: however
Caption: let's listen to what it's like for a
Caption: screen reader
Caption: Joe Biden image 306. Joe Biden Kampala
Caption: Harris Donald Trump image 232 Donald
Caption: Trump Mike Pence one votes one votes 20
Caption: votes four votes two votes 11 votes ten
Caption: votes 10 votes 16 votes six votes 14
Caption: votes four votes five votes 29 votes
Caption: four votes seven votes 20 votes three
Caption: votes 15 votes 12 votes 10 votes 11
Caption: votes nine votes 55 votes seven votes
Caption: three votes I think you get the idea
Caption: that goes on for another five minutes so
Caption: I'm not going to um keep that one
Caption: playing
Caption: oh
Caption: apologies
Caption: okay
Caption: um so as you could probably hear that
Caption: was not a terribly good experience for
Caption: screen reader users uh it it was even
Caption: kind of lucky that that particular data
Caption: visualization or that website actually
Caption: had some labels on the data so that you
Caption: could hear votes votes votes how many
Caption: votes um often it's just image image
Caption: image image image or something else
Caption: um
Caption: so
Caption: how do we make an accessible HTML chart
Caption: so luckily in the last few years one
Caption: particular company has made it really
Caption: really easy
Caption: um so the uh the advice that I have is
Caption: uh use the high charts JavaScript
Caption: charting library and add a couple of
Caption: accessibility modules that they include
Caption: in there and that's it that's the end of
Caption: my talk
Caption: um
Caption: uh but Jokes Aside unless you have a
Caption: really really giant development team you
Caption: probably don't want to be writing your
Caption: own database Library unless you really
Caption: need to especially if you want to make
Caption: it accessible it is quite easy to kind
Caption: of get it to the mouse hover point where
Caption: you can have tool tips showing on Mouse
Caption: hover but there is quite a bit more work
Caption: to do after that
Caption: um and high charts isn't the only
Caption: Library out there but is one of the most
Caption: fully featured and uh best developer
Caption: experiences I've found are the libraries
Caption: that you may have heard of such as am
Caption: charts uh couldn't quite uh work out as
Caption: easily how to get the accessibility
Caption: module going in that
Caption: um
Caption: and uh
Caption: so a few years ago I built a dynamic
Caption: chart when I worked for a Logging
Caption: company so on the screen I have a a
Caption: column chart there and this chart is to
Caption: show effective log retention how
Caption: effective log retention policies are
Caption: um uh on keeping kind of disk space to a
Caption: maintainable level
Caption: um so uh it was a column chart that
Caption: ended up being at least keyboard
Caption: accessible
Caption: um and uh this was kind of working with
Caption: the knowledge I I had at the time I was
Caption: still learning and still trying to
Caption: understand what makes an accessible data
Caption: visualization
Caption: um a dynamic one
Caption: and I had a really good crack in making
Caption: it screen reader accessible but it was
Caption: probably a horrendous experience for
Caption: them
Caption: um similar to kind of the uh video that
Caption: I just played and unfortunately it
Caption: wasn't tested with real users which is
Caption: really really important and and
Caption: absolutely
Caption: must must do so on the screen as I think
Caption: most of you or all of you cannot see
Caption: because it's tiny font
Caption: um is the accessibility tree of the
Caption: chart that I just displayed and I
Caption: actually can't even read it uh
Caption: and what I'm trying to demonstrate in
Caption: this screenshot is
Caption: um that I added Aria labels to each of
Caption: those bars or each of those columns and
Caption: it was really repetitive the first uh
Caption: the first part of the a label was the
Caption: same for every single
Caption: bar and so for a screen reader user
Caption: who's trying to cycle through all of the
Caption: data in the chart they will just hear
Caption: the same first five words for the
Caption: um for the chart and then only the uh
Caption: only the numbers changed at the very end
Caption: of the sentence so uh past me was trying
Caption: to be descriptive and but unfortunately
Caption: it made it quite a bad experience so
Caption: that's one example of why it's so
Caption: important to test with actual screen
Caption: reader users
Caption: um
Caption: apologies if the internet is going to
Caption: load
Caption: um
Caption: so alternatively so I did that in d3.js
Caption: I've completely forgotten how to use
Caption: d3.js and it keeps happening every time
Caption: d3js is like a library that helps you
Caption: build svgs easier
Caption: um
Caption: so alternatively a bunch of research
Caption: user testing has gone into the high
Caption: charts products and uh the head of
Caption: accessibility and another co-worker of
Caption: his actually joined the database
Caption: accessibility group that we um virtually
Caption: met up with once a month and uh they
Caption: were so cool so I'm a huge fan
Caption: um
Caption: and so they've done a bunch of work so
Caption: that you don't have to so if you're not
Caption: already sold on using High charts it's
Caption: really customizable they haven't paid me
Caption: for this
Caption: um it's just they've made it really
Caption: really easy and nice experience and and
Caption: it's pretty accessible still do
Caption: usability testing
Caption: um
Caption: uh so
Caption: you do still have to do some
Caption: configuration but you don't have to
Caption: build it from scratch
Caption: all right so let's make a graph
Caption: um but uh first I wanted to talk to you
Caption: uh quickly just just through graphs that
Caption: are images just to start off with
Caption: um and then we'll move on into HTML
Caption: charts so on the screen I have an image
Caption: of a line graph
Caption: there's three lines three data series or
Caption: three lines on it
Caption: you might be able to see that there's
Caption: jaws nvda and voiceover so we're talking
Caption: about three different types of screen
Caption: readers and there's a y-axis and an X
Caption: asset access and you're probably already
Caption: picking up that there are a few things
Caption: missing from this chart if you are into
Caption: Data
Caption: um
Caption: so
Caption: um there are a few steps to kind of
Caption: begin with to make the chart accessible
Caption: so a little quick checklist of checks
Caption: that we can do for a static image which
Caption: also kind of carry on to Dynamic charts
Caption: or HTML charts so we've got to get these
Caption: ones right first and then we can make it
Caption: Interactive
Caption: so I've kind of split it into three
Caption: three different categories the first
Caption: test is content and I usually do this
Caption: first because thinking about the content
Caption: and how to make the content accessible
Caption: and Cole talks a lot about this in the
Caption: storytelling we've done a book you might
Caption: end up changing the chart completely and
Caption: you don't want to kind of work on all
Caption: the other accessibility parts of the
Caption: chart and then end up changing the chart
Caption: and then having to go through and work
Caption: through all the rest of the visual and
Caption: non-visual accessibility needs of the
Caption: chart after that
Caption: um
Caption: so making sure that there's a title a
Caption: descriptive title even and axes are
Caption: labeled appropriately and one thing uh
Caption: is number formatting making it a nice
Caption: experience putting commas making sure
Caption: units are correct making the chart and
Caption: reducing the cognitive load for anyone
Caption: looking or
Caption: inspecting the chart the next test after
Caption: that is visual testing so the things
Caption: that probably were all uh kind of think
Caption: of first when we think of accessibility
Caption: of charts is contrast making sure the
Caption: contrast is okay meets um the kind of uh
Caption: usual requirements if you're familiar
Caption: with wikang or the web content
Caption: accessibility guidelines but in in
Caption: summary it just has to kind of not be
Caption: bright yellow or a really light pastel
Caption: um
Caption: uh and um making sure that we're not
Caption: relying solely on color or giving the
Caption: option to be able to you know add
Caption: patterns to the Chart
Caption: um uh that's that alternative Pathways
Caption: again if someone can use color then
Caption: um that's that's fine but making sure
Caption: that we provide the other the other
Caption: alternative
Caption: um and and a font is a big one is two
Caption: making sure that the font is legible not
Caption: using like very fancy Arty fonts uh Sans
Caption: serif or the uh the Ariel or helvetica
Caption: or anything that doesn't have the little
Caption: extra bits on on parts of the font
Caption: um uh uh more accessible to folks who
Caption: may have dyslexia
Caption: um
Caption: and uh and finally non-visual making
Caption: sure that the chart has alternative text
Caption: or an image description you might be
Caption: familiar with this and HTML is adding
Caption: the alt tag on the image element
Caption: so
Caption: um
Caption: writing so one of the hardest bits is
Caption: writing alt text for charts but someone
Caption: in the databiz community has written and
Caption: it incredibly awesome article on just
Caption: giving a simple template to be able to
Caption: just take this template fill in what you
Caption: need and that's a really really good
Caption: description of an image of a chart
Caption: and usually folks are including images
Caption: on charts to complement an article that
Caption: might be to support some sort of factual
Caption: point that they are making in that
Caption: article and the chart is not really
Caption: something that people are actually using
Caption: to kind of explore or get data from
Caption: um so describing what the chart is and
Caption: uh something that is really really
Caption: important is making sure to have a link
Caption: to the data source that alternative
Caption: Pathways again so a download to a CSV
Caption: file or maybe a HTML table on another
Caption: page
Caption: um so that if a person is not able to
Caption: pass the visual chart they can go and
Caption: inspect the data themselves
Caption: if they would like
Caption: so
Caption: um even if you have an interactive chart
Caption: uh
Caption: if you're not quite sure how to make it
Caption: accessible with all the keyboard and all
Caption: the JavaScript and all the screen reader
Caption: stuff what you can do is kind of wrap
Caption: this chart wrap the chart in an image
Caption: um image role and give it alt text and
Caption: then make sure that you have that
Caption: absolutely make sure that you have that
Caption: link to the data so that they can
Caption: download it or inspect it in a table so
Caption: that's that's a great start if
Caption: you're not quite sure how to how to make
Caption: it accessible in terms of screen readers
Caption: and things
Caption: all right and uh my favorite reminder is
Caption: if you are tweeting
Caption: um and you're not aware that you can add
Caption: alternative texts to your DVD Perth
Caption: tweets
Caption: um I uh don't quite remember how to do
Caption: it
Caption: um but I think when you take a photo
Caption: there's a little alt button somewhere on
Caption: your phone and you can click on that and
Caption: you can
Caption: describe your image as well so uh you
Caption: may have seen that Twitter has also
Caption: brought out the alt button feature so
Caption: that you can inspect other people's alt
Caption: text so if you are new to writing alt
Caption: text it is actually not that easy it
Caption: takes a bit of practice
Caption: um you can kind of cheat and look at
Caption: what other people are describing the
Caption: images as
Caption: um on Twitter without having to you know
Caption: switch on your screen reader and and try
Caption: to inspect the image that way
Caption: all right back to database so
Caption: how to make accessible HTML charts
Caption: um
Caption: so what if we can't make do with an
Caption: image
Caption: uh
Caption: so for example most people here probably
Caption: have
Caption: a banking or either finance app this is
Caption: the example that we're going to go with
Caption: it's quite
Caption: um
Caption: quite a simple one
Caption: so have you ever thought about what the
Caption: HTML or JavaScript might be behind those
Caption: charts I don't know commbank uh
Caption: I actually haven't tested it but I'm
Caption: pretty sure comb Banks uh kind of income
Caption: outcome that's not the right words
Caption: um incoming and outgoing expenses are
Caption: are quite accessible yeah
Caption: um
Caption: and uh
Caption: um so
Caption: oh sorry
Caption: um
Caption: yeah have you ever thought about like
Caption: what what is the HTML that is behind
Caption: those charts
Caption: uh but first usually uh we have a table
Caption: of data whether or not it's in Excel or
Caption: it's made possibly in a Json uh payload
Caption: that's coming back from some service
Caption: um you we usually have some data in some
Caption: sort of kind of tabular format
Caption: um
Caption: and uh which is Handy you should keep
Caption: this around
Caption: um and now is actually a good time to
Caption: ask with this table of data
Caption: do we really need a chart for this
Caption: or can we just leave it as a table and
Caption: like that's that's pretty good
Caption: um these are not real numbers of
Caption: anything I just made them up um
Caption: uh
Caption: um so if the answer is yes then all you
Caption: need to do is make sure that the HTML
Caption: table is is accessible
Caption: um
Caption: and uh voila A Accessible Dynamic data
Caption: visualization
Caption: so on the screen I have a table of data
Caption: with
Caption: um
Caption: two headers of incoming and outgoing
Caption: um and three rows of the months of July
Caption: August and September and some dollar
Caption: figures in there and
Caption: so let's have a look at how to code this
Caption: successfully
Caption: oh that is very small
Caption: um
Caption: so I'll try to talk through it as best
Caption: that I can so
Caption: uh just some things to remember is uh so
Caption: oh firstly the
Caption: um
Caption: the quickest way is to head to the Wai
Caption: w3c site and have a look at the tables
Caption: tutorial has excellent every type of
Caption: table you could think of like where you
Caption: have like a header row and a header
Caption: column or you just have a header row or
Caption: you have some random uh headers uh Here
Caption: There and Everywhere
Caption: um but the the one thing that I've
Caption: noticed folks forget the most is making
Caption: sure to add scope to use th when when a
Caption: cell is a header
Caption: um and using scope equals coal if the
Caption: header is along the top and it's
Caption: referring to the column and
Caption: referring to scope and adding scope
Caption: equals rho when a cell is a th in the
Caption: the header of a row so this is a table
Caption: with a row header and a column header
Caption: and column headers
Caption: um
Caption: and
Caption: a little bit of kind of extra extra
Caption: niceties to make numbers easier to read
Caption: in this table we've also added a class
Caption: to make sure that we right align the
Caption: numbers because it is been known and
Caption: researched that it easier to read
Caption: numbers that are that are right aligned
Caption: um and have commas and and all that good
Caption: ux stuff
Caption: uh all right so
Caption: on to a uh Dynamic data visualize the
Caption: data visualization so
Caption: um we decided no we don't want a table
Caption: we want to go a little bit fancier uh so
Caption: on the screen I have an interactive
Caption: chart and
Caption: um you wouldn't know it but it's not
Caption: actually interactive yet
Caption: um so what I've got is a link before the
Caption: chart and a link after the chart I think
Caption: Julie is cringing because I forgot to
Caption: put underlines in the CSS to show that
Caption: they are links apologies and I've got a
Caption: big chart in the middle that is a column
Caption: chart that is the chart chart
Caption: representation of the data that we just
Caption: had in the table on the previous slide
Caption: and so I will uh firstly do start off
Caption: with using keyboard to test
Caption: so hopefully
Caption: I can
Caption: the focus Styles will come up
Caption: they will not
Caption: maybe if I get out of full screen mode
Caption: gape
Caption: all right
Caption: oh the focus styles are very faint
Caption: that is not great I'm going to switch to
Caption: Chrome apologies
Caption: we will need Safari later to test with a
Caption: screen reader
Caption: okay
Caption: and we're back and hopefully
Caption: there we go uh hopefully those that can
Caption: see the screen can see the focus outline
Caption: on the first link before the chart and
Caption: we are expecting to be able to tab into
Caption: the chart and kind of interact with it
Caption: so uh if we hover over it with our Mouse
Caption: we can see oh fantastic there's some uh
Caption: really cool kind of uh it fades out the
Caption: other data and and and Fades in the data
Caption: that you are looking at all the columns
Caption: that you're looking at and there's a
Caption: little tiny tool tips that you probably
Caption: can't read from back there but they are
Caption: tortoise that have all the information
Caption: so that if you were someone who might
Caption: use screen magnification if you are
Caption: zoomed right into that tooltip you have
Caption: all the information that you need and
Caption: you don't need to kind of scroll across
Caption: to the axes to to kind of guess what
Caption: this uh what the what the um
Caption: y-axis in the x-axis categories are so
Caption: everything you need is in that tooltip
Caption: which is great
Caption: um and uh and we can click on the legend
Caption: to toggle on and off that's a nice
Caption: feature
Caption: um straight out of high charts uh
Caption: everything you ever wanted in data
Caption: visualization
Caption: so
Caption: let's try and see so I can't use a mouse
Caption: let's say let's try and interact with
Caption: that chart
Caption: oh uh it skipped to the link straight
Caption: under the chart there is no way that I
Caption: can get to that chart the focus outline
Caption: is going up and down up and down so how
Caption: do we fix that so unfortunately
Caption: um High charts does not uh out of the
Caption: box
Caption: um give you the accessibility straight
Caption: away I really wish that it did
Caption: so I will add it I'm using a framework
Caption: called reveal.js for the slides
Caption: um
Caption: and so I can just add that module in the
Caption: code that I've preferred earlier
Caption: um
Caption: so I will
Caption: you don't need to pay too much attention
Caption: to this I will just uh
Caption: uncomment out some JavaScript modules to
Caption: show how few steps it is so I'm
Caption: uncommenting out I actually only need to
Caption: uncomment out one line of JavaScript
Caption: modules but I've added the other two so
Caption: that I can talk through them at the same
Caption: time as well
Caption: um all right
Caption: so I should probably save it
Caption: uh and I'm back into Safari I want to go
Caption: into
Caption: Ryan
Caption: main Chrome yes I'll do a refresh
Caption: all right uh
Caption: you may or may not have noticed
Caption: something changed on the screen uh if
Caption: you didn't there's a little menu on the
Caption: top right hand corner now I'll talk
Caption: about that later but let's see if it's
Caption: keyboard accessible oh my goodness so we
Caption: are in so I've just tabbed from the link
Caption: before the chart into the chart and it's
Caption: focused on the First Column uh that is
Caption: the incoming uh
Caption: um the monthly income for July 2022.
Caption: and if I press tab again it focuses on
Caption: the legend which has incoming as a light
Caption: blue kind of color and outgoing as a
Caption: very dark gray color and if I tab one
Caption: more time it focuses me to the menu
Caption: hamburger icon on the top
Caption: and then one last time uh to the link
Caption: after the chart and so notice that
Caption: um so I'm just pressing Tab and it
Caption: doesn't actually take me through each
Caption: individual data point because if there
Caption: were a lot of those that would take a
Caption: person a very long time to tab all the
Caption: way through
Caption: um and uh and get to kind of the rest of
Caption: the article if they don't really care
Caption: about the chart
Caption: all the rest of the app
Caption: um so what they have added in here and
Caption: and this is all quite new and and not
Caption: really uh as several libraries have kind
Caption: of done different things um there's also
Caption: another awesome accessible accessible
Caption: chart library from Visa called the Visa
Caption: chart components Library I think
Caption: um
Caption: and so they have different kind of
Caption: keyboard behaviors uh but I really
Caption: really like the high charts one it's
Caption: really simple and
Caption: um
Caption: and uh so I've kind of used that one as
Caption: a reference if I was to build my own
Caption: again
Caption: um and when I built that one um
Caption: way back when
Caption: so the way to get to different data
Caption: series is using the Eric our data points
Caption: is using the arrow key so I've just hit
Caption: right arrow it's gone to the next column
Caption: of the same data series or incoming
Caption: um monthly income I don't know why what
Caption: word I'm looking for
Caption: um and then uh hitting right right arrow
Caption: again is focused on the third
Caption: column
Caption: and so how do I get to the next data
Caption: series or the outgoings I hit right
Caption: arrow again just then and it focused on
Caption: the outgoing and if I keep hitting the
Caption: right arrow and the left Arrow I can go
Caption: between all of those columns but I can
Caption: also switch between series by pressing
Caption: up and down arrows so that's a really
Caption: really nice
Caption: um kind of behavior that high charts has
Caption: come up with I'm sure talking with lots
Caption: of folks in the accessibility in the
Caption: disability community
Caption: um all right
Caption: so same thing with the legend I can
Caption: change between each so I've just tabbed
Caption: the legend using left and right arrow to
Caption: kind of switch between toggling them on
Caption: and off
Caption: um and uh going to the button I can
Caption: press the space bar oh or press enter I
Caption: can press the spacebar and use the arrow
Caption: keys to scroll through the menu but drop
Caption: down menu accessibility is a whole
Caption: nother talk but but basically you can
Caption: press space or enter and escape to get
Caption: out of the slides not the menu
Caption: so and there's a bunch of options that
Caption: they added in there in here in
Caption: particular being able to export the data
Caption: in a format that you like so they have
Caption: CSV they have Excel they have viewer
Caption: data table which
Caption: will actually show a data table I can't
Caption: show it in the presentation because it
Caption: uh it it conflicts too much with the CSS
Caption: of the reveal.js um but I do have a code
Caption: pen if we get time at the end
Caption: um but a lot of uh really awesome
Caption: options so really really fully featured
Caption: um uh
Caption: data visualization Library
Caption: uh
Caption: okay
Caption: so the screen reader experience
Caption: let's have a look at that
Caption: live screen reader demos are not my
Caption: forte let's see how this goes oh
Caption: application Safari
Caption: Safari inclusive storytelling with
Caption: Dynamic data window inclusive
Caption: storytelling with Dynamic data where
Caption: content has keyboard Focus
Caption: yep
Caption: all right uh so if I press the link
Caption: before the chart
Caption: to click this link press control option
Caption: space
Caption: and then I'm going to press uh control
Caption: option and use the arrow keys and so
Caption: this is a common misconception uh is
Caption: that there is such a thing called a
Caption: virtual cursor for screen reader for
Caption: screen readers if you um are not so
Caption: familiar with screen readers so it
Caption: doesn't actually send any Focus or hover
Caption: or or anything to the Chart itself so
Caption: you won't see the same Focus Styles
Caption: happening when I navigate around using
Caption: the screen reader
Caption: um and that is the reason why it doesn't
Caption: send any sort of
Caption: um actions to the chart and it relies
Caption: solely on having the correct Aria roles
Caption: or the semantic HTML in the back too but
Caption: you will see the square blocks if you
Caption: can see
Caption: um the square box of where this virtual
Caption: cursor is so you can get a bit of an
Caption: idea of what's going on and you will
Caption: notice that there is a lot more to this
Caption: chart when we navigate it with a screen
Caption: reader
Caption: okay so pressing right arrow monthly
Caption: incoming expenses q1 2022 to 2024 image
Caption: created with one zero two one monthly
Caption: I haven't refreshed
Caption: foreign let's try that again all right
Caption: all right August 2022 1009 show incoming
Caption: selected toggle button list two items
Caption: oops you are currently on the toggle
Caption: button displaying the link before the
Caption: chart apologies I'll just get back to
Caption: the start all right monthly incoming
Caption: expenses q1 2022 to 2024 hardships
Caption: interactive chart region you're
Caption: currently in the region
Caption: interactive chat with a role of region
Caption: heading level three monthly incoming
Caption: expenses it's got a heading level three
Caption: so uh screen reader users often use
Caption: headings to as a shortcut to navigate to
Caption: stuff on the page uh so having a heading
Caption: in there is is nice
Caption: you are currently on a text element
Caption: hitting level three monthly incoming
Caption: expect gotcha with two Dodger Series so
Caption: it says bar chart with two data series
Caption: so it's describing the anatomy of the
Caption: charts which I think is really cool
Caption: um and super helpful he was data table
Caption: monthly incoming expenses q1 2022 to
Caption: 2024 collapsed button you are currently
Caption: on a button and uh it's going through
Caption: some of the options that might be
Caption: preferable for a screen reader user the
Caption: chart has one capital x axis displaying
Caption: categories you are currently on a text
Caption: element the chart has one y-axis
Caption: displaying amount data ranges from 382
Caption: to 2310. you are currently on a text
Caption: element
Caption: a transcript into the screen so as it
Caption: might be a bit tough to hear
Caption: July 2022 1293 Australian dollars in
Caption: August 2022 1928 Australian dollars
Caption: incoming September 2022 1200 image you
Caption: end up incoming our Series without going
Caption: now series two or two or three bars July
Caption: 2022 382 Australian dollars after August
Caption: 2022 September 2022. so notice that the
Caption: focus styles on the charts uh the the
Caption: data series don't change August 2022
Caption: 1928 Australian dollars incoming in
Caption: September 2022 image the end of incoming
Caption: outgoing now series two of two three
Caption: July 2022 382 Australian dollars
Caption: outgoing Image
Caption: august.com Group you are currently in a
Caption: group chat credits hardships.com
Caption: clickable end of child credits
Caption: hardships.com group end of interactive
Caption: chart group created with hotches one
Caption: zero two one toggle series visibility
Caption: monthly incoming expenses q1 2022 to
Caption: 2024 region you would list two items end
Caption: at least end off toggle series
Caption: visibility monthly incoming expenses new
Caption: chart menu monthly end of interactive
Caption: chart end off monthly incoming the link
Caption: after the chart
Caption: um so that is uh all the extra uh
Caption: um kind of screen reader only accessible
Caption: uh content that is added to make sure
Caption: that the experience is uh equivalent for
Caption: those who may not be able to see the
Caption: chart as uh to those who are able to see
Caption: the chart
Caption: all right
Caption: so
Caption: if I've got a voiceover off I'm going to
Caption: turn that one off and go back to Chrome
Caption: okay so uh quickly to to kind of wrap up
Caption: um just speaking through kind of what's
Caption: under the hood of what's made this
Caption: accessible
Caption: um and I do recommend to take the time
Caption: to kind of look at what's going on if
Caption: you do try out High charts uh inspect
Caption: the Dom uh turn on the accessibility
Caption: tree it's in your developer tools you
Caption: can Google how to turn on the
Caption: accessibility Tree in either Chrome or
Caption: uh or Firefox or whatever whatever
Caption: browser you use um if you understand the
Caption: accessibility tree um super helpful
Caption: um
Caption: but uh in in kind of the the
Caption: step-by-step firstly using JavaScript to
Caption: add mouse and keyboard interactivity it
Caption: is something that you have to
Caption: deliberately do extra not for high
Caption: charts it's what's being done in high
Caption: charts but if you were doing it yourself
Caption: and adding Aria to the parts of the SVG
Caption: to give it meaning so for example we
Caption: might have missed that with the demo
Caption: just now uh High charts has actually
Caption: marked up the columns as images and then
Caption: added an aria label to those images
Caption: um
Caption: as it kind of represents what it is it
Caption: is an image on a screen
Caption: and then adding that non-visual content
Caption: to describe the chart for the screen
Caption: reader user
Caption: um and it's also great for SEO
Caption: um
Caption: and uh and last but not least uh back to
Caption: the start of the talk when we're talking
Caption: about just working on accessibility for
Caption: an image of a chart don't forget about
Caption: the content and visual accessibility as
Caption: well so that applies for both
Caption: interactive charts keyword navigation is
Caption: tabbing to the main bits so don't make
Caption: them tab through absolutely every data
Caption: point arrow keys between the data points
Caption: or space or enter for buttons and for a
Caption: screen reader front load the info give
Caption: them
Caption: give screen really uses uh kind of as
Caption: much info as possible that they can pick
Caption: through and but also make sure you give
Caption: them the choice to kind of skip all of
Caption: that so make sure you have your headings
Caption: um on um or or
Caption: uh or even a skip chart button is um
Caption: something that we've used before as well
Caption: and don't get too creative with Arya uh
Caption: the first rule of Arya is don't use Arya
Caption: a few accessibility folks
Caption: familiar with that
Caption: um please use the high charts or other
Caption: Frameworks that have tested with real
Caption: folks as a reference
Caption: and if you do roll your own and I've
Caption: spelled roll wrong on the screen uh
Caption: please make sure you engage usability
Caption: testing with screen reader users and and
Caption: other assistive technology users
Caption: all right a note on color uh this is a
Caption: big one and I've left it to kind of a
Caption: little tiny Gap
Caption: um don't use color alone to
Caption: differentiate data or differentiate
Caption: different data series uh so there's lots
Caption: of talks about using patterns
Caption: um you can use different shape markers
Caption: and different patterns and stuff like
Caption: that but High trust has also done
Caption: research on this and they say to use
Caption: monochrome palettes if possible and so
Caption: this helps everyone not just kind of red
Caption: green colorblind folks
Caption: um and it's also got cool kind of side
Caption: effects like you can print tactile
Caption: charts if you make sure that you use a
Caption: monochrome palette
Caption: [Music]
Caption: um
Caption: and also be careful with patterns they
Caption: can make it worse so uh and um I I
Caption: haven't noticed that myself so don't
Caption: just go stick a pattern on it done have
Caption: a little take a little bit time to think
Caption: about it
Caption: all right and I have a whole bunch of
Caption: resources on there
Caption: um chart ability I highly recommend it
Caption: is like a wikag for charts or or a
Caption: checklist of tests that is really deep
Caption: and really really useful for charts
Caption: um and accessibility of database but I
Caption: will go back to the first slide where
Caption: the link to the slides
Caption: um so that you can go and find those and
Caption: click on them
Caption: thank you so much
Caption: oh that link is databiz Dash
Caption: ddd-2022.netify.app
Caption: I just want to thank Loren for coming
Caption: along and giving a talk today
Caption: um I certainly have learned a lot of
Caption: accessibility sins that I commit on a
Caption: daily basis from that
Caption: um but yes uh please thank Lauren for
Caption: her talk today and we'll be going to a
Caption: changeover with the next talk soon
Caption: [Applause]